Create Guide : Using Openstack Tokens (#4569)
ovh/docs: pages/platform/public-cloud/using_openstack_tokens_for_multiple_calls/guide.en-gb.md

**This guide provide good practices to perform a lot of Openstack actions in a short time**

> [!primary]
>
Informations in this guide applies to version 3.0 of the Keystone API
>

## Instructions

### Definitions

- Endpoint: HTTP address pointing directly to a service's API. For example [https://auth.cloud.ovh.net/v3/](https://auth.cloud.ovh.net/v3/) for the authentication endpoint or [https://image.compute.gra11.cloud.ovh.net/](https://image.compute.gra11.cloud.ovh.net/) for the GRA11 zone image management endpoint. 

- Token: A unique string of characters used to authenticate and access resources. The user requests it by entering their credentials (login details) to the authentication API. The token is generated and it is valid for 24 hours.

- OpenRC : To increase efficiency of interactions with the Identity service via the openstack client, OpenStack supports simple client environment scripts also known as OpenRC files.
This is a file containing common options for all clients, but also support unique options.

### Outline of a request
Most requests sent to the OpenStack API must follow an authorization procedure, which involves generating a token and validating it.

> However, if you perform too much actions in a short time, some Openstack actions will fall in error due to too much API Calls

Reviewer: Maybe we can give more information here, like (to be better rephrase) :
The interest reuse a token avoid the cli create one at each command run, make it quicker, and avoid HTTP 429  error because token generation is rate limited to 60 per minute, and other API calls does not have such limit.

> However, if you perform too much actions in a short time, some Openstack actions will fall in error due to too much API Calls

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if you perform too much actions in a short time, some Openstack actions will fall in error due to too much API Calls. Current limit is 60 token creation per minutes and per Openstack user, if you go above this limit, authentication endpoint will answer HTTP 429 error.
```

For more information, see the [OpenStack API](http://developer.openstack.org/api-guide/quick-start/) documentation.

This guide will show you how to issue an Openstack token, use it for the actions you want to perform and how to revoke a token

### Requirements 

This guide needs the Openstack CLI tool installed on your machine

> You can find more informations on this tool with this guide : [OpenStack CLI](https://docs.openstack.org/newton/user-guide/cli.html)

Reviewer 2: Can't we point to a more recent version of the cli ?

```suggestion
You can find more informations on this tool with this guide : [OpenStack CLI](https://docs.openstack.org/python-openstackclient/latest/)
```

| project_id | 8a7[...]                                                       |
| user_id    | f99[...]                                                       |
+------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
```

You can now export token previously issued : 
```bash
export OS_TOKEN = gAAAAA[...]
```

You can also export directly your token with this command : 

```bash
export OS_TOKEN=$(openstack token issue -f value -c id)
```

### Step 3: Remove useless variable

In order to use your issued token to make actions with your user, you have to unset the "OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME" variable

To do so, run this command:

```bash
unset OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME
```

### Step 4: Use token to run commands

Now that you have your token, you can use classic Openstack calls to manage your infrastructure

```bash
openstack --os-auth-type token <command>
```

Example : 

```bash
openstack --os-auth-type token image list
```

### Step 5: Revoke Openstack token

Once you performed all the actions you wanted, you can revoke used token to avoid it to be used for any other actions

To do so :

```bash

> openstack --os-auth-type token token revoke <token_id>

Reviewer 3: token token?
:)

Author: Yup, I've tried without the --os-auth-type and I've this error : 
openstack token revoke $OS_TOKEN
__init__() got an unexpected keyword argument 'token'

By using the --os-auth-type token, it works perfectly

Reviewer 3: Damn, I understand now!
Sorry for this

Reviewer: I was able to get it working on openstack cli version 5.1.2 and 6.0.0, cool

# or 

> openstack --os-auth-type token token revoke $OS_TOKEN

Reviewer 3: same here
